Thank you so much for everyone. Welcome. Again, I would like to say a good "APAN" and welcome
everyone. Thank you very much for making time and participating with our session of this practice
during these times. Thank you so much for everyone. Welcome.
Again, I'm going to talk through the words about the teachings of the Course-Generated
Kṛṣṇa Buddha Shatyamuni. Particularly, it is teaching from the Bhakti-Zhudu Rinpoche. It's
like advice to 14 students, that we all have, I guess you all have that focus. So we're going
through this, that teaching.
And this teaching is now on the sixth line of that page, which is discussing or explaining and
reminding us of the importance of the Three Jewels.
These Three Jewels, of course, we all know, is Buddha, Dharma and Sangha in Buddhism. Those are the
Three Jewels, known as, spiritually, actually, the Three Jewels. As I said the other day, they are
more than Jewels, more than the precious.
They are supreme, real, precious. They are granted all the wishes of the Jew in peace, happiness,
for ourselves, for all the beings, forever. That is what these Three Jewels are.
It is not just a jewel. It is supreme, real jewel. Truly, though it is, the only jewel is the ornam
ents of God, saints, beings or physical beings, non-human beings.
Everyone honors because it is the treasure and the jewel of every living beings, because it is the
essence, the nature of everyone.
That Buddha is pointing out, revealing us to, so that we can glorify, cherish and enjoy with this.
That's what really this jewel is.
Now, among that jewel, first is Buddha, Dharma and Sangha. Those are the Three Jewels. I take
refuge in the Buddha, I take refuge in the Dharma, I take refuge in the Sanghas.
So, we went really about the Buddha. Today, I talk really about Dharma. Now, Dharma is the Sanskrit
word. It has this Dharma word used for about ten different meanings.
It is. It can be used for ten different names, about ten. Among that, this is known as Dhambuchud
in it a bit.
And if I translate that into English, holy Dharma. This is holy Dharma, not just regular Dharma,
Dharma.
It is holy, supreme jewel as I am talking. That is really Dharma. So, we have made Dharma now.
It has two meanings, the word that meaning. It has meaning of correcting, it has meaning of
protecting.
So, what Dharma has two, holy Dharma has two. Correcting and protecting.
What means correcting? Correcting from the old habit pattern. That is not good for me, not good for
others.
From protecting from that old unhealthy, unwholesome habit patterns.
Who is? One who apply that, he protects us from that. We will be protected from the unhealthy, unwh
olesome habit patterns.
So, that. And then, what is protecting? Protecting all the difficulties, the troubles of anything
that we face in the samsara.
It will protect us. How? It is protected with sub-drivenment of the skills, courage and a
commitment.
And perseverance with joy and every hit. At the same time, the blessings of the Buddhas, such as
Buddha, Shakyamuni, Gaurav and Masambhava,
will also enter easily to our mind streams. Because we are preventing our old habit pattern, we are
going to hurt us.
We are going to, which are hurting us, which are hurting others.
Who is? Who created the old habit patterns? Nobody else. It is one's own creations.
Many times in the samsara, we are old samsara beings, creating more trouble by our own self than
others.
We create it. Many times knowingly, many times unknowingly.
That's why in the teaching of the great masters in the Gautama schools, in the 7th training of the
mind practice said,
"You are, can be enemy of your own self." You can be enemy of your own self.
Or the Buddha Shakyamuni, actually. Great teachers, Buddha Shakyamuni said, "You can be enemy to
your own self."
Same time, you can protect, go to your own self.
So ultimately, it's relying with us, how we like to protect ourselves, or how we like to damage
ourselves.
Fundamentally speaking, we already hurt our self by trouble-loving, deluded ego clankings.
We are already that way. But additionally, we add so many things.
Thinking is good for, but turn is always a wrong mistake.
We hurt each other, our self, more than enemy.
We miniaturize, we think the enemy is hurting.
But those actually compare with how much we, our own self, do. It's a practice.
Practice, really we do.
And therefore, this teaching, dharma, will protect from that old habit patterns.
So therefore, what is it need to be? "Chu-jo." "Chu" and "jo."
"Chu" means from old habit is correct us back to our self.
Who is correct? Buddha will help us, show us how to do, but we have to apply.
We should apply with our mindfulness, alertness, and consciousness.
All mindfulness, that, if we apply, that is how we correct our self.
Then you will protect. So that is the general meaning of dharma.
Now when we talk about dharma now, about dharma, only dharma.
Now I am making the whole meaning of dharma.
Now we talk about dharma. dharma can be divided into three.
Nature or identity and describe all the divisions and as well as benefit of the teaching.
And nature of dharma is cessation and path.
Path and cessation are the nature or the identity of dharma.
Now what that means? Cessation. What that means? Path.
Path is what we are going to apply.
When we are following, for example, Buddha gave the teaching.
Gurubhema samav gave the teaching when we have teach.
We read. Teachers will explain. When we start applying, that is known as following the path.
That is following the path.
When we do that, somebody will understand realization according to our capabilities or readiness.
That is known as realization or the cessation.
What means cessation? What is ceased?
It is the old habit dependence.
Maybe not ceased completely, but it is reducing.
It is reducing somebody, our old habit dependence according to our effort, courage and commitment.
So it is seizing the old habit dependence, simple ritual,
and advancing the realization as metaphor of the path.
This path is not outside, rolled apart.
It is part of the inner realization, inner development journey.
That is part, named as metaphor.
So we will advance. When we begin to advance,
at that time spontaneously it is reducing the habit dependence.
And cause of old habit dependence is some degree of the ego clinging.
And also maybe attachment, grasping, clinging, anger, jealous,
hating thought, a little bit reducing, accordingly it is going down.
And advancing, then what will we feel with that habit?
We feel more calmer, more peaceful, more patience, more tolerance, more openness.
Because old will shine naturally, old comes, spontaneously.
We don't have to make effort to get peaceful,
or to reach for more calm, or calmer, or more kind of openness.
When we put the practice, practice begin, it is old comes.
As the sun light shines, shines, that immediately darkness goes away,
immediately according to the light, darkness goes away.
At that moment, same time, all the beautiful birds start singing,
singing, and the lot of stars start blooming.
And all that happens, same time.
It's not something that has to make effort, these things.
That is what is known as the world of darkness.
So that is the nature of darkness.
Then, if we advance continuously, then that is known as the five parts, or ten rooms.
Each time you got the realization of the first part, second part, third part, fourth part,
and fifth part, realizations.
Those are realizations. Another name, it is cessation status.
You reach it.
At the same time, each time, you deepen your realization, understand.
At the same time, we put a fine, clear way, old, negative release.
We told any trace. Similar example, as sunlight comes, dark goes away.
There is no trace of the dark, where it's only.
You just serpentine it. That is how it is.
So that is really about the nature or identity of the darkness.
Now, we told the division of the darkness.
Darkness is divided into two groups.
Those are known as, in it's way, long-chu, tok-chu, long-chu, tok-chu.
And that long-chu, as I translated, is scriptures,
or in other words, teaching of the greatest teacher, Bodhachathamali.
And tok-chu is the meaning of that teaching.
That teaching is the meaning of the teaching of the Bodhachathamali, the meaning.
So one is mo, wo, the meaning statement.
Statement. And yes, teaching.
But the meaning is tok-chu.
If I translated that into English, realization, understanding.
When you read the book of the Buddha teaching, first you read,
but then you really contemplate on that, you will catch some meaning.
So when you read and contemplate and analyze, that is known as scripture.
When you catch some meaning, all that means this, this kind of absorbed heart.
It rented our heart. That is the realization, understanding.
So that is kind of a very simple way to explain of this long-chu, tok-chu.
And again, long-chu is the scripture, or the statement, or the teaching,
Bodhachathamali is a realization, understanding.
Catch the meaning from the teaching, teaching.
So those are two teachings.
How? Now, what are those post-scripture teachings, statement teachings?
Generally, Buddha gives according to so many teachings.
That means when Buddha become the Enlightenment, age 35,
and entered Mahafari Nirvana around age 81, I can't even say.
So over 45 years, Buddha gave a lot of teachings.
All these teachings are, it is, teachings on the non-violence,
teachings on the peace, teachings on the harmonious,
teachings on the respect and appreciation to all living beings,
and her teachings on how to respect the environment, and all ones.
Not just only the we see things, but even we don't see.
In Buddhism, when the Greek teacher Buddha said,
"There could be many beings you can be, you have to respect, appreciate."
We all live in this samsara.
In a way, we are citizens of the samsara.
In the samsara, there is no one less unhappiness,
and violence, sadness, sufferance.
Everyone has one desire, peace, happiness, fulfillment.
That is the same desire.
So therefore, respect and appreciation to every level,
that's what the Indian teaching said.
That's what the teaching is.
So Buddha gave a variety of teachings.
Those are named, every bigger one in the teaching,
what I said, 84,000 different teachings.
Those 84,000 teachings are divided into four groups.
And 24,000, no, sorry, 21,000 teachings,
particularly highlight how to subdue the attachments,
how to subdue the attachment, or how to transform the attachment.
21,000 teachings are principally connected,
how to subdue the anger.
And 21,000 teachings about how to subdue or despair,
or not just subdue, how to purify.
I should say purify, not subdue, how to purify by ignorance.
And 21,000 teachings, to purify, all target those emotions.
Those emotions mean attachment, anger, jealous.
So those are 84,000 teachings, but they kind of really highlight them.
Then that's all teaching can be summarized into 12 excellent teachings.
And I'm not going to listen to those 12 excellent teachings.
If you like to know those listed names,
you can look to the many resources and as well as the Googles.
I'm not joking, it's true, I'm sure it's there.
So that I won't go those numbers there.
And I know many, we are not so kind of keen of the many numbers,
except our lotus, and you like the numbers.
But otherwise we are not so keen on the number, so I won't go through that.
And then that whole 12 excellent teachings can be summarized into renowned,
that we've all heard so many times, three basket teachings.
Three basket teachings.
These three basket teachings that I'm going to talk about is Vinaya, Basket of Vinaya,
Basket of the Sutra, and Basket of the Abhidham.
So those are the three basket teachings.
Why he uses basket teachings?
Because Vinaya is not just a Vinaya only teaching,
it contains a variety of tools to discover our inner nature
and purify the obscurations, negative emotions.
And Vinaya is, so that is really Vinaya.
And what means Vinaya?
Vinaya means Sanskrit word, translated into Tibet, Dhruva,
means discipline, discipline teaching.
Displaying the word, the unwholesome activity of the body,
the unwholesome activity of the speech,
that is really the Vinaya teachings on how to display it.
So it's magenta, peaceful. And so that means, if we summarize this, what is teaching?
That is, principally, teachings on ethics and conduct.
Those are known as teachings, mainly.
But this is not just only ethics and conduct.
It has teachings of all other things, all other.
And what that means, actually, all other.
And actually, in the teaching, all three basket teachings
can be the essence of all that is summarized
or can be understood, three principle meanings.
The morality, concentration, wisdom, that is really what it is.
So Vinaya teaching is principally teaching highlighted
of the ethics of the morality, but it has teachings on the concentrators.
It has teachings on the Muslims.
So therefore, it is a rich basket that starts with the discipline of the moralities.
Morality in Sanskrit is chilam. Chilam translated into English, I think.
Morality in a debate is chitam. Chitam means cool.
We have a very gentle manner that is cool guys and cool girls.
Truly gentle, peaceful. Wow, that's really cool and so beautiful.
So special. That can be, that individually can be ornamented
or the beauty of every society, wherever you go.
Calm, peaceful, relaxed, openness.
Same time, smart, practical, with full of common sense.
That is the one that morality is, or chilam brings that.
So that is really about Vinaya.
Suttara, next basket of teaching is suttara.
Suttara means the first word translated into a debate.
Ancient time, those great emanation, fast letters in the adseki.
Bodhi means condensate.
What is condensate in a way? It is condensate teaching
or it is the focal point of teaching on how to concentrate on the mind.
So that's it. First is Vinaya teaching.
It deals with more kind of external activities,
with the principal activity of the body, activity of the speech,
when you become gentle and calm.
Now you have to deal with the fundamental, the various source.
The principal is the mind, so the mind has to be calm, the mind has to be peaceful.
Then really it brings you, perfect.
Perfect, from inside and from outside, or from outside to inside, every day complete.
Our body is cool, our speech is cool,
our mind has become calm and peaceful, and that is the ultimate cause.
Then it becomes, so it tells what is called suttara.
But suttara teaching is not just only how to concentrate on the mind,
it tells also, also, moralities.
It tells, tells in the wisdom, teaching.
So it's a combined package, combined teaching.
Therefore it's called basket teaching.
It's very complete teaching.
It's completely like megavitam, it's completely total,
total energy bars of the two, discover that realization.
So that is what really is suttara teaching.
And then now abhidhana, abhidhana is, is, is sanskri-bho.
In it, in it, it is translated as mungpa, mungpa.
If it is translated that in English, in English,
then sing the pranamana exactly as it is.
Or not maybe in pranamana, sing exactly as it is.
Sing in the direct perception status.
Sing exactly as it is.
And every time, later, there are more kind of what that means.
It's a wisdom.
Wisdom does it clearly everything as it is.
Nothing is highly stated, not understated,
exactly, simple, direct, whatever it is.
Sing that, that is a wisdom.
Sing truth is supreme.
There is nothing higher, better to the knowledge
than is not truth as it is, whatever it is.
So is this teaching explaining exactly related truth as it is,
and absolute truth as it is.
Again, greatest teacher, the compassion, wise teacher,
Buddha Shakyamuni, to how, how to capitalize or capitalize
or capture, capture the whole phenomenon
to bring the perfect understanding.
He sees true truths, related truth and absolute truth.
So, so marvelous, really, so marvelous,
to bring exactly the everything as it is.
Then, related truth, what he said,
all is interdependent coordination.
All is connected.
Nothing is coming or producing or going to happen
without cause and conditions.
That cause and conditions exactly line up with resolved problems
or with caused problems.
True or not, we can all think,
is there anything that came, came in our direct perception
without the cause and conditions?
Direct perception, valid cognitions.
Anything came? No.
Nothing is produced without cause and conditions.
So that is the relative truth where things are happening.
And this relative truth, nature is empty.
Therefore, therefore, everything is changing, moving, moving.
Translucent status.
This translucent status is not just a fancy word
usually in the philosophy of terminology.
Reality, it is.
Everything is like dream, translucent status.
Then, the nature of that is emptiness or infinite freedom.
It is, if I use the modern terminology,
it comes from physics, nature.
That is true, again.
That is known as in the Buddha's teaching, absolute truth.
That nature is not just some are that nature and some are not,
but entirely everything in that nature status, that status.
Whether it is subject, whether it is object.
That is all.
There is nothing is not in that status.
The great, infinite, great emptiness,
great freedom, openness status.
You have to be thinking that.
That is Abhidhamma teaching.
But Abhidhamma is also not just only that.
It has also teachings on morality, teachings on concentration.
So therefore, it is a basket of Abhidhamma teachings.
So those are like scripture teachings.
Now, this realization teaching.
Realization or the meaning teaching of these three baskets,
I already explained to you, I already said.
Those realization teaching or the meaning of the teaching,
principle meaning of the Vinaya teaching is morality.
That is realization.
That is what we have to practice there.
We have to practice.
It is not just an intellectual character.
We have to keep up that.
That is realization or practice.
And the principle meaning of the suttara is concentration.
Not just read the suttara.
We have to activate that meaning in our heart.
So meditating.
That is realization.
That is the meaning.
You are observing that in the heart.
And then, Abhidhamma, principle meaning of the Abhidhamma,
is a wisdom.
And wisdom is then as is said.
What is the level of truth, absolute truth,
is all in that great state of the interdependent or coordination,
all the great emptiness stages.
Again, not just the intellectual understanding.
And meditate on that.
If we meditate on that,
one is called, known as one japaramatas.
Mademakas.
Mahamudas.
Zukti teachings.
Those all is known as the wisdom practices.
Wisdom practices.
So that is the scripture.
So that is the realization.
What I said, divided, dharma can be divided into two.
True.
And it is the scripture and the realization.
And the scripture teaching, what the Buddha told,
those three basket teaching have summarized all.
That is the scripture teaching,
what the gracious teacher, Buddha, taught.
And then, the meaning of that is three extra-word trainings.
Morality.
Concentrations.
And wisdom practices.
That is the scriptural, sorry, realization teachings.
That is the scriptural teaching.
Also can be divided in other two ways.
Those are known as the scripture teaching by the Buddha Khatya Munims
and the scripture teaching by the great masters,
the qualified masters,
such as Nagar Jhunas, Masu Vaidu, Asengas, Alia Devas,
and the great master Shaita Vatras.
Remember, some of their teachings
are the equivalent of the teaching of the great teacher Buddha, Shaita Munims,
because their teachings are explaining totally, perfectly,
clearly, unmistakably, as Buddha taught.
So therefore, those teachings are known as Shastra in Sanskrit,
but Temptu in it a bit, Temptu, Vaidu.
That is really, that is what the scripture or the teaching can be divided,
and the scripture teaching of the Buddha,
scripture teaching by those great masters.
The meaning is the same.
Morality, concentration, and wisdom.
That is what the teaching itself is.
So, that is my brief talk for today about dharma.
And so, again, thank you very much, everyone,
and therefore, for participating.
And thank you, okay, thank you, everyone.
Thank you, okay, thank you.
Now we do again, talk meditation,
and then we're going to continue in Dakini ceremony.
Dakini ceremony.
And we did strenuous practices at you all, all participating.
Thank you very much, everyone.